<!-- Autogenerated by mlir-tblgen; don't manually edit -->
### `krnl.acos` (::mlir::KrnlAcosOp)

Krnl acos scalar operation

Krnl acos scalar operation.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `in` | floating-point

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `out` | floating-point

### `krnl.acosh` (::mlir::KrnlAcoshOp)

Krnl acosh scalar operation

Krnl acosh scalar operation.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `in` | floating-point

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `out` | floating-point

### `krnl.asin` (::mlir::KrnlAsinOp)

Krnl asin scalar operation

Krnl asin scalar operation.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `in` | floating-point

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `out` | floating-point

### `krnl.asinh` (::mlir::KrnlAsinhOp)

Krnl asinh scalar operation

Krnl asinh scalar operation.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `in` | floating-point

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `out` | floating-point

### `krnl.atan` (::mlir::KrnlAtanOp)

Krnl atan scalar operation

Krnl atan scalar operation.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `in` | floating-point

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `out` | floating-point

### `krnl.atanh` (::mlir::KrnlAtanhOp)

Krnl atanh scalar operation

Krnl atanh scalar operation.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `in` | floating-point

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `out` | floating-point

### `krnl.block` (::mlir::KrnlBlockOp)

Krnl block operation


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.block` $loop $tile_size attr-dict `:` functional-type($loop, results)
```

Block a single for loop by a constant tile size. For instance,
```
$ib, $il = krnl.block %i, 4
```
means to block the for loop referred to by %i using a tile size of 4.

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `tile_size` | ::mlir::IntegerAttr | 64-bit signless integer attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `loop` | any type

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `loop_block` | any type
| `loop_local` | any type

### `krnl.call` (::mlir::KrnlCallOp)

call operation

The call operation provides a generic way to call an external function
at Krnl level.  The `funcName` determines which function to call.
The `result` is the Value to store the function return. Currently only
one output is supported. The `result` has to be resulted memref.
Since resolution of the output MemRef involves shape inference on ONNX Op,
resolution should be done at lowering ONNX Op, not within krnl.Call.
Another reason is that Krnl.call need to be defined with AllocationOp
interface if `result` is allocated inside this Op.
The parameters can be of any type: MemRef, NoneType or any llvm type.
Different types of parameters will be converted, if needed, when KrnlCallOp
is lowered. Attributes will be converted to parameters too (To be Added).
The function signature will be determined with the types of parameters.
An LLVM::CallOp to either a runtime library or a llvm intrinsic function
will be generated.
The krnl.call op will be lowered to llvm at krnl-to-llvm conversion.

Interfaces: MemoryEffectOpInterface

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `funcName` | ::mlir::StringAttr | string attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `result` | any type
| `parameters` | any type

### `krnl.copy_from_tile_buffer` (::mlir::KrnlCopyFromBufferOp)

Copy from buffer.


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.copy_from_tile_buffer` $buffer `,` $dest `[` $starts `]`  attr-dict `:` type($buffer) `,` type($dest)
```

Operation that copy a destination memory from a buffer memory.
Starts indicate where the buffer data starts to go into the destination
memory. Start values must be at multiples of buffer size in all dimensions.
The buffer rank and dimensions are compile time constants.

If the buffer was oversized with respect of the actual data contained
in the tile, the actual tile size can be given using the tileSize
optional attribute. This attributes has the same rank as the buffer size,
and each dimension must be smaller or equal to the actual buffer size.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `tileSize` | ::mlir::ArrayAttr | 64-bit integer array attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `buffer` | memref of any type values
| `dest` | memref of any type values
| `starts` | index

### `krnl.copy_to_tile_buffer` (::mlir::KrnlCopyToBufferOp)

Copy to buffer.


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.copy_to_tile_buffer` $buffer `,` $source `[` $starts `]` `,`  $padValue  attr-dict
              `:` type($buffer) `,` type($source)
```

Operation that copy a source memory to a buffer memory.
Starts indicate where the source data starts to come from within
the source memory. Start values must be at multiples of buffer size
in all dimensions. The buffer rank and dimensions are compile time
constants.

The buffer will be entirely filled with the source data. By default,
the amount of data to copy is given by the size of the buffer.
In some cases, we may want to oversize a buffer for better cache,
simd, or loop unroll and jam reasons. If that is the case, the
actual tile size of the data to be copied over is given by an
optional tileSize attribute. This attributes has the same rank as
the buffer size, and each dimension must be smaller or equal to
the actual buffer size.

If there is not enough data in the source memory to fill the buffer,
because the operation reaches the upper bounds of the source memory,
several actions may happen.

* If`padToNext` attribute is given, the pad value will be copied from
  the last source data of to the next index for which index modulo `padToNext`
  is zero, i.e. to the end of a "cache line" of side `padToLine`. Pad
  of 1 means no padding, pad of buffer size means fully pad the buffer.
  Default is no padding (1). `PadValue` is used to initialized the padded
  areas.

* If `overreadToNext` attribute is given, the copy may read source past
  its upper bound value. This enable optimized code, e.g. using SIMD
  read operations even if going past the last value of the source
  memory, or unrolling and jamming copy loops to reduce memory latency.
  `overreadToNext` is expressed like padToNext: value of 1 means no
  reading past boundary; value of buffer size enables reading
  as many additional source value as needed to fill the full
  buffer. Default is buffer-size.

`padToNext` and `overreadToNex`t are of the same rank as source and memory
memrefs.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `tileSize` | ::mlir::ArrayAttr | 64-bit integer array attribute
| `padToNext` | ::mlir::ArrayAttr | 64-bit integer array attribute
| `transpose` | ::mlir::BoolAttr | bool attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `buffer` | memref of any type values
| `source` | memref of any type values
| `starts` | index
| `padValue` | any type

### `krnl.define_loops` (::mlir::KrnlDefineLoopsOp)

define_loops operation

The "krnl.define_loops" operation is used to define input loops,
those are the for loops appearing in the input program that we
intend to optimize.

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
&laquo;unnamed&raquo; | any type

### `krnl.dim` (::mlir::KrnlDimOp)

Krnl dimensions operation.

Emits the dimension of a MemRef independent of the MemRef alloc:

```
"krnl.dim"(%memref, %index)
```

The index identifies the dimension within the shape which is going to be emitted.
Initially the krnl.dim operation depends on the alloc of the MemRef.
Unlike the std.dim operation which maintains a dependency on the alloc of the MemRef, the dimension emitted by krnl.dim will not depend on the alloc operation of the MemRef once the krnl.dim operation is lowered.

Any changes to the original MemRef size after the krnl.dim has been lowered will not be picked up by the emitted dimension. This allows the original MemRef to be safely modified via code transformations or affine map normalization without the risk of changing the value already emitted via krnl.dim.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `alloc` | memref of any type values
| `index` | index

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `dimension` | index

### `krnl.entry_point` (::mlir::KrnlEntryPointOp)

Indicate ONNX entry point

The "krnl.entry_point" function indicates the main entry
                           point of ONNX model.
### `krnl.erf` (::mlir::KrnlErfOp)

Krnl erf scalar operation

Krnl erf scalar operation.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `in` | floating-point

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `out` | floating-point

### `krnl.find_index` (::mlir::KrnlFindIndexOp)

Retrieve an index into a perfect hash table described by G and V.

This operation can be used to generate a call to a runtime function which, 
given two arrays of int32_t values (G and V), which are used to represent a perfect
hash table for a dictionary, returns the index corresponding to the input value.
The index returned is valid only if 'input' is in the dictionary described by G and V.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

Interfaces: NoSideEffect (MemoryEffectOpInterface)

Effects: MemoryEffects::Effect{}

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `input` | string type or 64-bit signless integer
| `G` | memref of 32-bit signless integer values
| `V` | memref of 32-bit signless integer values
| `len` | 32-bit signless integer

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `index` | index

### `krnl.get_induction_var_value` (::mlir::KrnlGetInductionVariableValueOp)

Krnl 


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.get_induction_var_value` `(` $loops `)` attr-dict `:` functional-type($loops, results)
```

Krnl operation to convert loop references to corresponding induction
variable values. This is useful for accessing optimized loop induction
variables, as they are not otherwise accessible during Krnl Dialect.

For example, this operation can be applied to loop references corresponding to
inter-tile iterations. The return values will be the starting index of the
current tile being iterated over.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `loops` | any type

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `ind_var_vals` | any type

### `krnl.getref` (::mlir::KrnlGetRefOp)

Krnl a MemRef from within another MemRef starting at a specific offset.

    Retrieves a MemRef from within another MemRef:

```
    "krnl.getref"(%memref, %offset)
```
    The offset is an integer which is used as an index into the input MemRef. It works
    just like an array index.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `mempool` | memref of any type values
| `offset` | integer
| `value` | index

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `output` | memref of any type values

### `krnl.global` (::mlir::KrnlGlobalOp)

Krnl global operation

Operation for holding global data values. A global constant can have a
meaningful name recorded as its `name` attribute. Its content is stored
in the `value` dense/opaque element attribute.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

Interfaces: NoSideEffect (MemoryEffectOpInterface)

Effects: MemoryEffects::Effect{}

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `shape` | ::mlir::Attribute | any attribute
| `name` | ::mlir::StringAttr | string attribute
| `value` | ::mlir::Attribute | any attribute
| `offset` | ::mlir::IntegerAttr | 64-bit signless integer attribute
| `alignment` | ::mlir::IntegerAttr | 64-bit signless integer attribute

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `output` | memref of any type values

### `krnl.runtime_instrument` (::mlir::KrnlInstrumentOp)

instrumentation point.

Operation that invokes the runtime instrument utility.
May be used for gdb.

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `opName` | ::mlir::StringAttr | string attribute
| `opID` | ::mlir::IntegerAttr | 64-bit signless integer attribute
| `tag` | ::mlir::IntegerAttr | 64-bit signless integer attribute

### `krnl.isnan` (::mlir::KrnlIsNaNOp)

Krnl isnan scalar operation

Krnl isnan scalar operation.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `in` | floating-point

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `out` | 1-bit signless integer

### `krnl.iterate` (::mlir::KrnlIterateOp)

iterate operation

The "krnl.iterate" operation is conceptually equivalent to a nested for loops.

For instance, say we have the following two
```
%l0, %l1 = krnl.define_loops 2
%o0, %o1 = krnl.optimize_loops  {
    // Identity schedule.
    krnl.return_loops %l0, %l1
}
```

Then, consider the following krnl.iterate operation:
```
krnl.iterate (%o0, %o1) with (%l0 -> %i0 = 0 to 10, %l1 -> %i1 = 0 to 10) {
  // Some operations.
}
```

It is equivalent to:
```
for (i0 = 0; i0 < 10; i0++)
  for (i1 = 0; i1 < 10; i1++)
    // Some operations.
```

Traits: ImplicitKrnlTerminator

Interfaces: LoopLikeOpInterface

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
&laquo;unnamed&raquo; | any type

### `krnl.load` (::mlir::KrnlLoadOp)

A Krnl operation to load data from the memref.


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.load` $memref `[` $indices `]` attr-dict `:` type($memref)
```

The `krnl.load` op reads an element from a memref specified by an index
list. The output of load is a new value with the same type as the elements
of the memref. The arity of indices is the rank of the memref (i.e., if the
memref loaded from is of rank 3, then 3 indices are required for the load
following the memref identifier).

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `memref` | memref of any type values
| `indices` | index

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `result` | any type

### `krnl.matmul` (::mlir::KrnlMatMulOp)

Matmul operation for a single pannel.


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.matmul` $A `[` $aGlobalIndexMemStart `]` `,`
              $B `[` $bGlobalIndexMemStart `]` `,`
              $C `[` $cGlobalIndexMemStart `]` `,`
              `(` $loops `)` `,`
              `(` $iGlobalIndexComputeStart `,` $jGlobalIndexComputeStart `,`
              $kGlobalIndexComputeStart `)` `,`
              `(` $iGlobalUB `,` $jGlobalUB `,` $kGlobalUB `)`
              attr-dict `:` type($A) `,` type($B)`,` type($C) `,` `(` type($loops) `)`
```

    Perform a matrix multiplication AA * BB + CC with sizes `[IxK] * [KxJ] + [IxJ]`.
    The original matrices AA, BB, and CC can be buffered in buffered arrays
    which may be padded. The original matrices and the padded array might
    have a higher rank than 2, but the actual matrix multiplication operation
    only deal with the innermost 2 ranks of the matrices to perform its matrix
    multiplication operations.

    The computations may also compute only a sub-tile of the buffered arrays.
    This region is depicted using stars '*' below.

    All indices passed to this operation are the global indices in the original
    computation, so as to better know if we have boundary conditions.

    ORIGINAL ARRAY: denoted as AA, BB, CC with sizes AA: `*xIxK`; BB: `*xKxJ`; CC: `*xI*J`).

    BUFFER ARRAYS: denoted as A, B, and C. Note that this operation does
      not require the use of buffers arrays. If none are used, then A=AA,
      B=BB, C=CC. If buffers are used, it is the responsibility of the caller
      to properly fill the buffers with the appropriate data. Buffers are
      typically used for cache tiling.

     ORIGINAL ARRAY

```
     -------------------------------------------------
     |                                               ]
     |                                               ]
     |             buffer array       buffer pad     ]
     |            (3)---------------- ++++           ]
     |             |                 |   +           ]
     |             |     (1)****     |   +           ]
     |             |      *    *     |   +           ]
     |             |      *    *     |   +           ]
     |             |      ****(5)    |   +           ]
     |             |                 |   +           ]
     |             |                 |   +           ]
     |             ------------------|   +           ]
     |             +                     +           ]
     |             +++++++++++++++++++++(4)          ]
     |                                               ]
     -----------------------------------------------(2)
```

* (1) `iGlobalIndexComputeStart`/`jGlobalIndexComputeStart`/`kGlobalIndexComputeStart`,
   required, each three are global 1D indices.
* (2) `iGlobalUB`/`jGlobalUB`/`jGlobalUB`, required, each three are global 1D indices.
* (3) `aGlobalIndexMemStart`/`bGlobalIndexMemStart`/`cGlobalIndexMemStart`,
   required, global nD indices with the same rank as the buffers A, B, and C.
* (4) `aTileSize`/`bTileSize`/`cTileSize`, required when padding, each 2D sizes.
* (5) `computeTileSizes`, required when tiled computation within buffer, 3D sizes (I, J, K).

    The `iGlobalIndexComputeStart`/`jGlobalIndexComputeStart`/
    `kGlobalIndexComputeStart` (1) indicate the global indices of the
    first element of a tile to be computed in the original computations.

    The `iGlobalUB`/`jGlobalUB`/`kGlobalUB` (2) indicate the global upper bounds
    in the original computations.

    We provide 3 buffers for matrix multiply: A, B, and C. For each buffer,
    we indicate the global indices pointing the beginning of the buffer:
    `aGlobalIndexMemStart`, `bGlobalIndexMemStart`, and `cGlobalIndexMemStart` (3).
    If no buffers are used, i.e. the computation starts directly in the
    original memory, the global index is 0. If a buffer for AA is used to
    put data into it starting at indices `[i1, k1]`, where `i1` & `k1` are the
    global indices in the original computations, then `aGlobalIndexMemStart0`
    and `aGlobalIndexMemStart1` are `i1` & `k1`, respectively.

    If the A, B, or C buffers are larger than the actual data tile they
    contain (see `copy_to_tile_buffer`), then the actual tile size must be
    given using an optional attribute: `aTileSize`, `bTileSize`, or `cTileSize` (4).
    These optional tile size have a rank of 2, and their values must be
    equal or smaller than their corresponding buffer memrefs.

    If the computation are further tiled with respect to the size of the
    buffers A, B, or C, then the actual computation tile is given by
    the optional tile attribute `computeTileSize` (5). Its rank is 3, for the
    I, J, and K dimension. The actual A, B, and C buffer tile size
    (possibly specified by the optional parameters) must be a multiple of
    the I, J, and K `computeTileSizes`, in their respective
    dimensions (A: `[IxK]`, B: `[KxJ]`, C: `[IxJ]`).

    Note that the buffers A, B, and C can be of higher dimensionality than
    the traditional 2D mentioned up to now, because of broadcasting rules.
    At this time, we only support broadcast of arrays having ranks of 2 or
    more. Because of the broadcast rules, the higher dimensions have a
    constant index during one matrix multiply. These fixed indices are
    given as prefix dimensions in the starting indices for AA, BB, and CC
    as described above. E.g. if AA has a rank of 3, and BB has a rank of 2,
    the starting indices for AA are `[d, i1, k1]` where `i1` and `k1` are as
    above, and d is index pointing to the current instance of the `IxK`
    AA matrix to be computed. B start indices would be unchanged at `[k1, j1]`.

    Simdize is used to state if simdization is requested.
    Unrolling is used to unroll and jam loops as warranted.

    Below is an example calculating a matrix multiply with pre-zeroed
    C matrix with the sizes below.

```
    %A: memref<40x60xf32>, %B: memref<60x80xf32>, %C: memref<40x80xf32>

    // 3 tiled loops.
    %ii, %jj, %kk = krnl.define_loops 3
    %ib, %il = krnl.block %ii 10 : (!krnl.loop) -> (!krnl.loop, !krnl.loop)
    %jb, %jl = krnl.block %jj 8 : (!krnl.loop) -> (!krnl.loop, !krnl.loop)
    %kb, %kl = krnl.block %kk 10 : (!krnl.loop) -> (!krnl.loop, !krnl.loop)
    // 3 subtiles.
    %ilb, %ill = krnl.block %il 5 : (!krnl.loop) -> (!krnl.loop, !krnl.loop)
    %jlb, %jll = krnl.block %jl 4 : (!krnl.loop) -> (!krnl.loop, !krnl.loop)
    %klb, %kll = krnl.block %kl 5 : (!krnl.loop) -> (!krnl.loop, !krnl.loop)
    // Permute.
    krnl.permute(%ib, %ilb, %ill, %jb, %jlb, %jll, %kb, %klb, %kll)
        [0, 3, 6, 1, 4, 7, 2, 5, 8] :
        !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop,
        !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop
    // Outer 2 for i, j.
    krnl.iterate(%ib, %jb) with (%ii -> %i = 0 to 40,
                                 %jj -> %j = 0 to 80,
                                 %kk -> %k = 0 to 60) {
        %i1, %j1 = krnl.get_induction_var_value(%ib, %jb) :
          (!krnl.loop,!krnl.loop) -> (index, index)
        // Fill C buffer.
        %Cbuff = alloca(): memref<10x8xf32>  // n x m_simd
        krnl.copy_to_tile_buffer %Cbuff, %C[%i1, %j1], %f0 :
          memref<10x8xf32>, memref<40x80xf32>
        // Outer 1 for k.
        krnl.iterate(%kb) with () {
            %k1 = krnl.get_induction_var_value(%kb) : (!krnl.loop) -> (index)
            // Fill A and B buffer
            %Abuff = alloca(): memref<10x10xf32> // i x k
            %Bbuff = alloca(): memref<10x8xf32>  // k x j_simd
            krnl.copy_to_tile_buffer %Abuff, %A[%i1, %k1], %f0 :
              memref<10x10xf32>, memref<40x60xf32>
            krnl.copy_to_tile_buffer %Bbuff, %B[%k1, %j1], %f0 :
              memref<10x8xf32>, memref<60x80xf32>

            // Inner iterations for subtiles.
            krnl.iterate(%ilb, %jlb, %klb) with () {
                %i2, %j2, %k2 = krnl.get_induction_var_value(%ilb, %jlb, %klb) :
                (!krnl.loop,!krnl.loop,!krnl.loop) -> (index,index,index)

                krnl.matmul %Abuff[%i1, %k1], %Bbuff[%k1, %j1], %Cbuff[%i1, %j1],
                    (%ill, %jll, %kll), (%i2, %j2, %k2), (%c40, %c80, %c60)
                    { computeTileSize=[5,4,5], simdize=false, unroll=false } :
                    memref<10x10xf32>, memref<10x8xf32>, memref<10x8xf32>,
                    (!krnl.loop,!krnl.loop,!krnl.loop)
            }
        }
        // Copy back the data into C.
        krnl.copy_from_tile_buffer %Cbuff, %C[%i1, %j1] :
          memref<10x8xf32>, memref<40x80xf32>
    }
```

    Note that code is simdized along the J dim (last dim of B and C matrices).
    For simd to be enabled, the simdized flag must be set to true, and the
    following condition must be true:
    1) The vector length is the second entry of (i, j, k) compute tile size.
       The vector length must be a compile time constant.

Traits: AttrSizedOperandSegments, MemRefsNormalizable

Interfaces: SpecializedKernelOpInterface

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `computeTileSize` | ::mlir::ArrayAttr | 64-bit integer array attribute
| `aTileSize` | ::mlir::ArrayAttr | 64-bit integer array attribute
| `bTileSize` | ::mlir::ArrayAttr | 64-bit integer array attribute
| `cTileSize` | ::mlir::ArrayAttr | 64-bit integer array attribute
| `simdize` | ::mlir::BoolAttr | bool attribute
| `unroll` | ::mlir::BoolAttr | bool attribute
| `overcompute` | ::mlir::BoolAttr | bool attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `A` | memref of any type values
| `aGlobalIndexMemStart` | index
| `B` | memref of any type values
| `bGlobalIndexMemStart` | index
| `C` | memref of any type values
| `cGlobalIndexMemStart` | index
| `loops` | any type
| `iGlobalIndexComputeStart` | index
| `jGlobalIndexComputeStart` | index
| `kGlobalIndexComputeStart` | index
| `iGlobalUB` | index
| `jGlobalUB` | index
| `kGlobalUB` | index

### `krnl.memcpy` (::mlir::KrnlMemcpyOp)

Krnl memcpy operation

In the KRNL dialect the reshape op
doesn't generate a new memory entry and treats a reshape like a cast.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `dest` | memref of any type values
| `src` | memref of any type values
| `size` | integer

### `krnl.memset` (::mlir::KrnlMemsetOp)

Set buffer to a given value.


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.memset` $dest `,` $value attr-dict `:` type($dest)
```

Krnl operation that sets a buffer to a given value.
In case that the buffer is a MemRef with affine_map, `delayed` indicates
whether we set values along original or extended iteration space.

For example, given 
- an affine_map `#tile = affine_map < (i)->(i floordiv 4, i mod 4) >`, and
- a buffer of type `memref<5xf32, #tile>`

Original iteration space is along the first axis that has 5 elements.

If we do normalization, the memref becomes `memref<2x4xf32>`. Now we have
an extended iteration space along two axes of sizes 2 and 4, respectively.
This extended iteration space has 8 elements in total.

If `delayed = false`, the original iteration space is used to set values.
In the above example, only 5 out of 8 elementes will be set to the given value.

If `delayed = true`, the extended iteration space is used to set values.
In the above example, all 8 elements will be set to the given value.


Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `delayed` | ::mlir::BoolAttr | bool attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `dest` | memref of any type values
| `value` | any type

### `krnl.movable` (::mlir::KrnlMovableOp)

Krnl movable operation


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.movable` $region attr-dict
```

Encapsulates a list of operations, which should be moved under a newly lowered
affine for operation eventually, but cannot presently because the destination
affine for operation is not materialized yet.

This operation is automatically generated by the lowering of Krnl to affine dialect
to assist with maintaining the relative positioning of loop and inner-loop statements.
This construct is particularly helpful, for example, for lowering statements that
are nested imperfectly between an "eager" and a "lazy" loop.

Traits: ImplicitKrnlTerminator

### `krnl.permute` (::mlir::KrnlPermuteOp)

Krnl permute operation


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.permute` `(` $loops `)` $map attr-dict `:` type($loops)
```

Permute a set of affine for loops using a specified permutation map.
The permutation map `map` should be constructed in such way that the
for loop referred to by the i-th operand to permute operation is sent
to the `map[i]`-th position.

For example, the following krnl dialect IR:
```
%ii, %jj, %kk = krnl.define_loops 3
krnl.permute(%ii, %jj, %kk) [1, 2, 0] : !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop
krnl.iterate (%ii, %jj, %kk) with (%ii -> %i = 0 to 10, %jj -> %j = 0 to 20, %kk -> %k = 0 to 30) {}
```
will be lowered to:
```
// Referenced by %kk
affine.for %arg0 = 0 to 30 {
  // Referenced by %ii
  affine.for %arg1 = 0 to 10 {
    // Referenced by %jj
    affine.for %arg2 = 0 to 20 {
    }
  }
}
```

For a more complicated example, we demonstrate 3-D tiling using krnl.block in
conjunction with krnl.permute:
```
%ii, %jj, %kk = krnl.define_loops 3
// Blocking each loop by a factor of 4.
%ib, %il = krnl.block %ii 4 : (!krnl.loop) -> (!krnl.loop, !krnl.loop)
%jb, %jl = krnl.block %jj 4 : (!krnl.loop) -> (!krnl.loop, !krnl.loop)
%kb, %kl = krnl.block %kk 4 : (!krnl.loop) -> (!krnl.loop, !krnl.loop)
// Move iteration over tile coordinates to be the outer loops and iterateion over
// the inter-tile elements to be the inner loops.
krnl.permute(%ib, %il, %jb, %jl, %kb, %kl) [0, 3, 1, 4, 2, 5] : !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop, !krnl.loop
krnl.iterate(%ib, %il, %jb, %jl, %kb, %kl) with (%ii -> %i = 0 to 1024, %jj -> %j = 0 to 2048, %kk -> %k = 0 to 4096)  {
}
```

The above IR gets lowered to:
```
affine.for %arg0 = 0 to 1024 step 4 {
  affine.for %arg1 = 0 to 2048 step 4 {
    affine.for %arg2 = 0 to 4096 step 4 {
      affine.for %arg3 = #map0(%arg0) to #map1(%arg0) {
        affine.for %arg4 = #map0(%arg1) to #map1(%arg1) {
          affine.for %arg5 = #map0(%arg2) to #map1(%arg2) {
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `map` | ::mlir::ArrayAttr | 64-bit integer array attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `loops` | any type

### `krnl.print` (::mlir::KrnlPrintOp)

Print a value.

This operation can be used to print the input value. The user needs to provide a 
format string (à la printf) to specify how to print the input value. 
If the input value is not specified the operator will print the format string.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `format` | ::mlir::StringAttr | string attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `input` | any type

### `krnl.print_tensor` (::mlir::KrnlPrintTensorOp)

Print a tensor.

This operation can be used to generate a call to a runtime function which prints a tensor.
At the beginning of the msg string, user can add formatting instructions. The flags are:

*  `%s`: detailed signature (including shape, type, offsets),
*  `%t`: compact type (ala MLIR: `32x16xfloat`),
*  `%d`: data values.

When no formatting is provided, `%s%d` is used (detailed signature and data) by default.
Print operation ends with a newline, except when only requesting a compact types (`%t`).

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `msg` | ::mlir::StringAttr | string attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `input` | memref of any type values

### `krnl.random_normal` (::mlir::KrnlRandomNormalOp)

Generate a random normal tensor.

Operation that generates a random normally distributed tensor.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `output` | memref of any type values
| `numberOfValues` | index
| `mean` | floating-point
| `scale` | floating-point
| `seed` | floating-point

### `krnl.region` (::mlir::KrnlRegionOp)

Affine boundary for krnl loops

This Op has a region with AffineScope trait and is used to limit the 
scope of `affine.for`. The loop inside `krnl.region` can be affined if
its boundary is defined at the level of `krnl.region`. The `krnl.region` does
not guarantee or require the loops inside it to be affine.
With `krnl.region`, a krnl loop may not be  affine if its boundary symbol
is not defined inside a enclosing region without AffineScope trait.
In MLIR, FuncOp has the AffineScope trait.
The `krnl.region` will be removed after affine.for is lowered.
ToFix: current `krnl.region` does not have input and output. You cannot
create a new memref inside the region and use it outside of the region. 

Traits: AffineScope, NoTerminator, SingleBlock

### `krnl.seqextract` (::mlir::KrnlSeqExtractOp)

Krnl load from a seq

This op loads an element from the input sequence 'seq' at position 'index'.
The loaded element is copied and then return.
The position value is guaranteed to be positive. Negative position allowed
by ONNX Op definition should be handled before lowered to KrnlSeqExtract.

Attribute 'copy' provides an optimization for copying. 
When the attribute 'copy' is 1 (default value): the extracted element is copied and then return. 
When the attribute 'copy' is 0: the extracted element is directly returned
without copy.

The returned element is marked as allocated by this Op with the bufferation
interface so that deallocation can be generated correctly through the 
Bufferization::Deallocation pass.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

Interfaces: AllocationOpInterface, MemoryEffectOpInterface

#### Attributes:

| Attribute | MLIR Type | Description |
| :-------: | :-------: | ----------- |
| `copy` | ::mlir::IntegerAttr | 1-bit unsigned integer attribute

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `seq` | memref of any type values
| `index` | index

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `output` | any type

### `krnl.seqinsert` (::mlir::KrnlSeqInsertOp)

Insert an element into a seq

This op will create a new seq from the input seq by inserting the input
element at the desired position. The input element will be copied before 
inserted into the new seq, and the type will be casted to the type of seq 
element if needed. The elements after the insertion point will be shifted
one position in the new sequence without copying.
The motivation to introduce this Op is to help bufferization::deallocation
The sequence is implemented as memref of memref in onnx-mlir.
When an element is stored into a sequence, it becomes invisible.
The memref for the element will be freed after this Op after its last
use of the element.
To avoid dangling pointer, the element is copied before it is inserted 
into the sequence. 
The allocation for the copy will be freed by SequenceErase,
or revealed to graph
when the element is extracted from the sequence. Consequently, the 
deallocation pass can handle the space correctly.
For future optimization, the one-shot bufferization interface may be used
to transfer the space of the input element to the element in the sequence.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `input_element` | any type
| `input_sequence` | memref of any type values
| `index` | index

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `output` | any type

### `krnl.seqstore` (::mlir::KrnlSeqStoreOp)

Krnl store into a seq

This op is similar to KrnSeqInsertOp but assumes that the input seq has
the space for the new element and 
only need to copy the element and store it into the sequence.
There is no return of a new seq, different from KrnlSeqInsertOp.
This Op is introduced to accumulate a dynamic tensor in a LoopOp with
statically known iteration count.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `input` | any type
| `seq` | memref of any type values
| `index` | index

### `krnl.shape` (::mlir::KrnlShapeOp)

Krnl operation to retrieve the shape of a MemRef.

Extracts the shape of a MemRef:
```
  "krnl.shape"(%memref)
```
The return result is of `shape.type`.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `alloc` | memref of any type values

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `shape` | memref of any type values

### `krnl.specialized_kernel` (::mlir::KrnlSpecializedKernel)

Krnl specialized kernel op


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.specialized_kernel` `(` $loops `)` attr-dict `:` type($loops)
```

Krnl operation to convert.

Interfaces: SpecializedKernelOpInterface

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `loops` | any type

### `krnl.store` (::mlir::KrnlStoreOp)

A Krnl operation to store data to the memref.


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.store` $value `,` $memref `[` $indices `]` attr-dict `:` type($memref)
```

The `krnl.store` stores a value to a memref location given by indices. The
value stored should have the same type as the elemental type of the memref.
The number of arguments provided within brackets need to match the rank of
the memref.

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `value` | any type
| `memref` | memref of any type values
| `indices` | index

### `krnl.strlen` (::mlir::KrnlStrlenOp)

Compute the length of a string.

Krnl operation that computes the length of a string.

Interfaces: NoSideEffect (MemoryEffectOpInterface)

Effects: MemoryEffects::Effect{}

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `str` | string type

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `res` | 64-bit signless integer

### `krnl.strncmp` (::mlir::KrnlStrncmpOp)

Perform string comparison up to N bytes.

Krnl operation that performs a string comparison up to N bytes.

Interfaces: NoSideEffect (MemoryEffectOpInterface)

Effects: MemoryEffects::Effect{}

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `str1` | string type
| `str2` | string type
| `len` | 64-bit signless integer

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `res` | 32-bit signless integer

### `krnl.tan` (::mlir::KrnlTanOp)

Krnl tan scalar operation

Krnl tan scalar operation.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `in` | floating-point

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `out` | floating-point

### `krnl.terminate` (::mlir::KrnlTerminatorOp)

Krnl terminator operation

Krnl terminator is a special terminator operation for blocks inside krnl
iterate operations. It unconditionally transmits the control flow to the
successor of the operation enclosing the region.

This operation does _not_ have a custom syntax. However, krnl control
operations omit the terminator in their custom syntax for brevity.

Traits: Terminator

### `krnl.unroll` (::mlir::KrnlUnrollOp)

Krnl unroll operation


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.unroll` $loop attr-dict `:` type($loop)
```

Fully unroll the specified loops.
```
krnl.unroll %i
```
unrolls the loop referred to by %i fully.

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `loop` | any type

### `krnl.vector_type_cast` (::mlir::KrnlVectorTypeCastOp)

vector type cast operation


Syntax:

```
operation ::= `krnl.vector_type_cast` $source attr-dict `:` type($source) `to` type($result)
```

The "vector_type_cast" operation converts a memref from an non-vector
element type to another memref of a vector elemental type while not changing
the source memref's element type. The last dimension size of the source
dimension is divided (floor division) by the vector size to obtain the
corresponding dimension for target memref type.

```
%MV = vector_type_cast %M : memref<64x16xf32> to memref<64x2xvector<8xf32>>
%AV = vector_type_cast %A : memref<?x?xf32> to memref<?x?xvector<8xf32>>
```

Traits: MemRefsNormalizable

Interfaces: CastOpInterface, NoSideEffect (MemoryEffectOpInterface), ViewLikeOpInterface

Effects: MemoryEffects::Effect{}

#### Operands:

| Operand | Description |
| :-----: | ----------- |
| `source` | memref of any type values

#### Results:

| Result | Description |
| :----: | ----------- |
| `result` | memref of any type values

